+++
title = "Spam"
slug = "2007-05-29-spam"
published = 2007-05-29T08:00:00-07:00
author = "Emil"
tags = []
+++
I've had now 3 different fraud attempts in the last week (we need your
help to claim <span style="font-style: italic;">x</span> million
dollars...) appear in my inbox, both at work and at my personal address,
making it past all spam filters. I have another 2 in my junk email at
work, where I hardly get any spam at all. It's odd to me that this has
happened so suddenly. Maybe these people are in the US and have more
time over [memorial day](http://www.usmemorialday.org/).  
  
In other spam news, I was going through my spam the other day to make
sure nothing important was being filtered out (I actually found that the
filters were grabbing my [Vonage](http://www.vonage.com) email, so it
was a worthwhile exercise). Most of the spam was related to certain
drugs, and it made me wonder what caused these drugs to be responsible
for 80% of my email. This is my conclusion:  

-   Viagra/Cialis/etc. are marketed to help with issues that people
    might not want to discuss out in the open - email gives them
    anonymity and frees them from embarassment.
-   They are expensive, and those that want the drug have a strong
    desire to realize some cost savings. This thought is reinforced by
    the fact that a good portion of email not relating to these drugs
    are referring to ways of getting cheap drugs in general.
-   They are expensive, meaning that the spammers realize a lot of
    profit if they can sell fraudulent (or maybe even real?) pills.  

Next in the list was spam related to attempts to gain access to my
personal information
([phishing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phishing)), followed by stock
tips. Stock tips have historically been the most successful at getting
through the filters. They tend to also use images containing text,
rather than just sending their message as text in the body. I don't
usually look at any spam that sits in the spam filter, so it's unclear
to me how many other messages use the technique.
