+++
title = "Got FIOS?"
slug = "2006-04-29-got-fios"
published = 2006-04-29T14:18:00-07:00
author = "Emil"
tags = []
+++
Well, the trucks have rolled through the neighborhood laying down fiber
optic cable through the streets. While I don't have
[FIOS](http://www.verizonfios.com) yet, it will be installed May 5th.
For the uninitiated, the service is high speed brodband Internet access
provided by Fiber Optic cable directly to the house. Instead of a cable
or DSL modem, what gets installed in your house is an ethernet jack. I
like the service for the following reasons:  

1.  It's fast (15Mb/sec, which is triple the speed of cable service
    here)
2.  It's fast (2Mb/sec upload speed, which is 6 times the speed of cable
    service here). Why do I care about upload speed? When working from
    home, talking on Vonage (over the Internet) and sharing applications
    in Netmeeting becomes painful.
3.  It's priced well. For $1 less than my already-discounted broadband
    cable service, I get the 15Mb/2Mb package. If I were even cheaper
    than I already am, I could have 5Mb/2Mb service for $10 less. That
    would give me roughly the same service I have now, but would vastly
    improve my upload speed.

I may have splurged a bit on the 15Mb package...not sure I'll use all
the download speed. But guaranteed, it will be nice.  
  
As an aside, the power of marketing and brand recognition is really
evident in this space. I could pay 3x as much with Comcast (or Verizon)
for the same service I get from Vonage. Verizon FIOS is very new, so
they are priced so well that there's just no reason to switch. Either
you get better service for the same price (like me), or you save
$10/month. With 1 month free and a 30 day money back guarantee, there is
no customer switching costs. It will be interesting to see how Comcast
reacts to the competitive threat when FIOS starts getting mindshare...
