+++
title = "Passport saga"
slug = "2007-04-12-passport-saga"
published = 2007-04-12T08:07:00-07:00
author = "Emil"
tags = []
+++
We are taking a family vacation to [Casa
Manana](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L-qo0LBu7Sg) in [Bucerias,
Mexico](http://www.buceriasmexico.com/), just north of [Puerto
Vallarta](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puerto_Vallarta). We originally
applied for [Kathryn's](http://kathrynmarie.shutterfly.com/)
[passport](http://travel.state.gov/passport/passport_1738.html) back on
January 18th, and were given March 15th as the date for the passport to
get here in the mail. Due to the [recent changes in travel
regulations](http://www.state.gov/r/pa/prs/ps/2006/76752.htm), we
expected it would take longer, but we decided 3 months (12 weeks) was
plenty of time, and we did not need [expedited
service](http://travel.state.gov/passport/get/processing/processing_1740.html).
The web site currently claims processing times of 10 weeks, although I
believe at the time it was saying 8 weeks.  
  
March 15th flew by, so we checked the [status
online](http://travel.state.gov/passport/get/status/status_2567.html)
around March 29th. The site said that we'd get the passport April 9th.
This was pretty close to our April 15th departure, so I called on April
3rd to find out if this was a problem, and if so, what I could do about
it. When I called, I literally got "all circuits are busy, please try
again later". A redial later, I got through, and the phone menu starts
with, "We are currently experiencing unprecedented demand for US
Passports. We have added staff and are working overtime to make sure
that no travel plans are effected. If you are not traveling in the next
two weeks, PLEASE, hang up. (then something to the effect of "it will be
ok")". Option 1 and option 3 later, I'm told, "all our agents are busy,
we can not answer your call at this time".  
  
Several more redials later, and I actually get into the queue. I wait a
relatively short 30 minutes and the agent tells me, "oh, you're in good
shape, this is in book print". I asked what that meant, and they said
that it stays in book print for a day and then someone physically
compares the passport to the application, a process that also takes a
day. Then it gets shipped out priority mail (2-3 days). The woman told
me that with Easter and everything, and "you know how the government is"
(I love that coming from a government employee), that I should see it
Saturday or Monday.  
  
Monday goes by, and no passport. Tuesday goes by, and no passport. So I
check the status online after the mail came, and now it says that it
shipped, but it's estimated to arrive "on or about 4/14/07". Umm...we
<span style="font-weight: bold;">leave</span> on 4/15, so what do they
mean with that "about"? So, I give them another call on Tuesday (April
10th...5 days before we fly). After the prerequisite redialing and 30
minute wait, I get through and they said I should be in good shape. It
physically was on a truck on April 9th, so I should see it Thursday or
Friday (April 12th or 13th).  
  
The story does have a good ending, as the passport has arrived today
(April 11th). Talk about cutting it close, though...  
  
As a quick postscript to a long post, Kathryn got one of the new [RFID
passports](http://travel.state.gov/passport/eppt/eppt_2498.html), and
it's really fancy. I think they did a very good job with the [design and
artwork](http://travel.state.gov/passport/eppt/epptnew_2807.html), and I
can only assume it's less subject to counterfeiting. I'm not sure how
well the [face
recognition](http://travel.state.gov/passport/eppt/eppt_2788.html) will
work with Kathryn when she's 4 years old, though.
